


Conflicts are a sign of injustice and no conflict on Earth is longer or more complicated than the Israeli-Palestinian conflict which has been said to originate from ancient times.

For every metaphysical action, there is a metaphysical reaction, as imbued in the idea of karma. The cognition of human conflicts has led humans to think of solutions to such conflicts, the best being those from enlightened minds. In the East, this manifests as teachings from Buddhism, Taoism, Yoga, etc. while in the West, this manifests as the ideas of the Enlightenment, of which David Hume and Adam Smith were part of the Scottish branch.

Fortunately, David Hume's Treatise (Book 3) deals exactly with justice in an intellectual way, breaking down ideas to their components and exposing connections, while Adam Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments deals with it from an objective impartial spectator way, ultimately ending up with feeling and conscience or the man inside the breast. In short, we can say that Hume's method is the brain while Smith's is the heart. In non-instinctual actions, feeling comes first, followed immediately by the brain. The proof is that we will not bother thinking about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict if we didn't care about it. We will need both methods to deal with such a complex issue.


Sep 6 2016
The origins of the Libyan Civil war was connected to Arab Spring which began in Tunisia and spread to Egypt.

The biggest mistake was Qaddafi going on air and saying that he will basically kill all his enemies, including women and children. This threat made Obama act up and launch airstrikes against Qadaffi. Big mistake.

It's weird because while the US killed Qadaffi, it did not kill Bashar Al-Assad who already killed his own people with poison gas.

The root cause of all this was the Financial Crisis of 2008.


1997 asian 
In July 1997 a financial crisis that a in Bangkok.

In Manila, banks closed down. The effects of the crisis was felt in Erap was ousted and Megawatti was ousted.

The cause of

4 employments of capital 3/22/2017

oct 1 2017 a lot of struuggle



Extraction (Improving and extracting raw materials for use and consumption)
Manufacturing (Processing the raw materials for immediate use and consumption)
Wholesale + Logistics (Bringing those finished or processed goods from where they abound to where they are lacking)
Retail  + Distribution (Dividing portions of raw materials or finished goods into small parcels for those who want them).




Each of these four methods is needed by the other three.




Which capitals replace which capital?

The retailer’s capital replaces, with profits, the wholesaler’s capital.

The wholesaler's capital replaces, with profits, the capitals of the farmers and manufacturers he buys from.

Part of the capital of the master manufacturer is employed as a fixed capital in the instruments of his trade.

The farmer’s capital mobilizes the most amount of productive labour.




Residence of the Four Capitals










Source: Book 2, Chapter 5



Unlike the 2008 Financial Crisis which had many warnings, the 1997 crisis took many by surprise. I remember that there was a boom just in 1995, ASEAN leaders met and it was very good. By 1997 the dean of DLSU went to my high school to talk about exchage rates adn why the Thai Baht was affecting the Philipoie economy. His explanationwas that ever currency had to be devalued to match that of Thailand.




Defining the Conflict

Clear definitions are important, not only to get a common understanding about the issue, but also to set bounds. The most basic definition of the conflict is that it is a territorial dispute between Israelis and Palestinians. From this we derive three ideas: territory, Israelis, and Palestinians.

We then determine whether 'Israeli' or 'Palestinian' is objective, as in racial or physical-DNA-based, or subjective, as in idea-based, such as a person of Chinese DNA who has accepted the idea of American citizenship is technically an American, or a person of South American race (which is very far from physical Palestine) who has converted to Judaism and has moved to Israel can be regarded as an Israeli.

We can see that even the basic definition is difficult because it is made complicated by the subjective belief of religion which unlike national beliefs, is static and might not allow agreements with other religions or national laws. To get around this difficulty, we simply disregard subjective religious identity altogether and base it on objective impressions. But objectivity can take various forms, such as citizenship records and DNA. Do we view Indian Jews as possible Israelis and allow them to settle in Palestine merely because they have a DNA link but obviously have no historical link*?

They would have a historical link if they have been constantly sending emissaries to Palestine since their tribe left, just as a distant Roman garrison would keep its connection with Rome alive through messengers.




As a human policy, DNA cannot be the measure of allegiance since this would imply that the body is superior to the mind and that there is no such thing as free will. It would be like a DNA version of India's caste system which locks people into certain roles for life. If DNA alone determined allegiance, then all overseas Chinese of whatever nationality should have the same right as Chinese citizens in China, which is absurd. By disregarding DNA, then we disregard the source of the conflict as it began in ancient times when the connection between a physical Jew, the idea of being a Jew, and the idea of Jewish territory was established.

Thus, without DNA, the definition of Israeli and Palestinian is through residency or citizenship records before the conflict began.

